# AutoAbacus
AutoAbacus is a program that was created in our lab in order to count cells on different samples.
# Basics of processing
In order to conduct the research of biocompatibility of different types of materials, there is a need in development of special counting software. We have found that most commonly used software like ImageJ or Cell Profiler are not suitable for our case and a promising approach was to create our own methods of cell counting that were implemented in MatLab. Our program, AutoAbacus, uses photos of dead and alive cells as input, and, in addition to that, requires special parameters as range of numbers that will be used to turn picture into binary (pixels, color of which is less then threshold get 0, more 1), and expected area of cells in pictures. After that, users can choose to count cells on parts or on the whole picture simultaneously. For each of the proceeding pictures, results of count with thresholds with the maximum of cells are used. In the process of counting, our software differentiates cells and after that finds candidates to be a cluster, $i.e.$ two or more cells that were registered as one, based on median parameter.  After clusters were dictated, all of the picture except them turns to black, and the program has another round of cell differentiation. The process ends after all clusters are eliminated. Then, the resulting picture is shown, with clusters being red and normal cells being green. Users have an opportunity to add or deduct cells depending on the  results. After all of the experimental data proceeds, the program uses Student statics in order to analyse the resulting data. 
# Usage of our program
In order to test it out for themselves, the user needs to download all of the functions, and then execute the command: "Experiment_processing("Gold", 0.9)", where the first variable is name of the material, photos of which are stored in data_folder, and second is probability.
